I'm going to show
you how the cost
function for a Siamese
network works.
This is known as
the triplet loss.
Let's dive in, I'll now show you
a simple loss function you
can use in your Siamese network.
Just as a recap, this is
the overall structure of
the Siamese network
which enables you to
predict whether two questions
are similar or different.
With the outputs of the network,
you are able to calculate Y hat,
which is the similarity
between the two questions.
Now I'll show you a loss
function for a Siamese network.
I'll start by looking
at this first question,
which is how old are you?
I'll call this first
question the anchor,
which I'm going to use
to compare against
two other questions
relative to the anchor.
Other questions that
have the same meaning as
the anchor are called
positive questions.
Whereas questions
that do not have
the same meaning as the anchor
are called negative questions.
Note that the meaning
of positive and
negative in the context
of finding question
duplicate is
referring to whether
a question is similar
to the anchor or not.
Or not whether it has a
positive or negative sentiment.
The question, what is
your age is considered
a positive question
relative to the anchor
because how old
are you and what is your
age mean the same thing.
This other question,
where are you from,
is considered a negative
question because it
does not have the same meaning
as the anchor question.
Here's a definition of
cosine similarity
between two vectors.
That will be the
similarity of function
S. To train your model,
you'll be comparing
the vectors that are
output by each sub
network using similarity.
For this example,
you're going to take
the similarity between A and P,
where a refers to
the anchor question and
P refers to the
positive question.
Similarity is bounded between
negative one and one.
For vectors that are
completely different,
the similarity is
near negative one.
For vectors that are
nearly identical,
their similarity is
close to positive one.
For a well trained model,
you'd like to see a
similarity close to one
when comparing the anchor
and a positive example.
Similarly, when
comparing the anchor
to the negative example,
a successful model should yield
a similarity close
to negative one.
To begin building
a loss function,
you start with the
similarity of A and N and
subtract the similarity of A
and B to calculate
the difference.
What you have here is a loss
function that allows you to
determine whether your model
is roughly doing what
you hope it will do.
Namely, finding that the anchor
and the positive
example are similar,
and that the anchor and
the negative example
are different.
As the difference gets bigger or
smaller along the X axis,
the loss gets bigger or
smaller along the Y axis.
When minimizing the
loss in training,
you are, in effect,
minimizing the difference.
In the next video, I'll
introduce triplets.